---
layout: post
title: Snæfellsnes, Iceland in miniature
category: Travel
image: /assets/images/blogs/iceland-in-miniature/kirkjufell.jpg
---

Snæfellsnes Peninsula, located in the West of Iceland is by far one of
my favorite places in Iceland.

<!--more-->

This peninsula, located a couple of hours' drive from Reykjavik, is like
a miniature version of the whole country and has everything Iceland has
to offer: impressive lava fields, out of this world rock formations,
lava caves, black and golden beaches, birdlife, charming fishing
villages, spectacular mountains and a world-famous glacier, the majestic
Snæfellsjökull.

No matter how often I visit Snæfellsnes, I never get tired and I always
discover something new. I believe Snæfellsnes is a special place you
cannot miss if you are visiting Iceland.\
It is easy to explore Snæfellsnes on your own in just one day. However,
with a few days, you will be able to see more of the peninsula and
discover its most hidden gems.\
Just like Iceland, Snæfellsnes is beautiful in every season but my
favorite time of the year to visit the peninsula is the summertime, when
the Icelandic colors are at their best and you also have the chance to
take a [snow-cat tour on Snæfellsjökull](https://sfn.is/tours/snaefellsjokull-glacier-snow-cat-tour/).

<span class="image fit"><img src="/assets/images/blogs/iceland-in-miniature/house.jpg" alt="" /></span>

## **Places to see on Snæfellsnes**

There are so many places to explore and activities to do on
Snæfellsnes!\
One of the most popular places to visit is **Kirkjufell**, Iceland's
most photographed mountain, also featured in the HBO tv series Game of
Thrones as the "Arrowhead mountain\". A parking lot is located just
opposite the mountain and it is popular to cross the bridge over the
river and take the iconic picture of Kirkjufell with the waterfall
(**Kirkjufellsfoss**).

Other popular places include **Arnarstapi** with its lovely sea-cliffs,
the black wooden church of **Buðir** and the black beached of
**Dritvík**, to name a few.\
The peninsula is dotted with lovely fishing villages, the most
picturesque of which is probably **Stykkishólmur**. Located on the
northern side of the peninsula, Stykkishólmur has a lot of colorful
buildings and a lovely harbour from where I have seen some of the most
beautiful sunsets in Iceland.

There are many places you can visit on Snæfellsnes, some very popular
and often crowded, and some off the beaten track. It would be impossible
for me to name them all here. However, I am going to tell you a bit more
about two of my favorite locations, that you really should not miss on
your visit to the Snæfellsnes Peninsula.

<span class="image fit"><img src="/assets/images/tours/private-tour/lava.jpg" alt="" /></span>

### **Bersekjahraun Lava Field**

One of my absolute favorite places on Snæfellsnes is **Berserkjahraun**
**lava field**.\
I must admit I have a thing for moss-covered lava fields, for reasons to
me still unknown. I am fascinated by the striking lava formations, by
the different colors of the rocks and by the shades of green of the moss
covering them. In the summertime, the contrast between the different
greens of the moss, the black and red lava and the blue skies create
landscapes that are really magical.

#### **The history of Berserkjahraun lava field**

Berserkjahraun, located between Stykkishólmur and Grundarfjörður, is a
400 years old lava field that gets its name from one of the Icelandic
sagas.

According to the saga, the path that now cuts through the lava field and
makes it possible to drive through it was built by two berserkers from
Sweden. One of these berserkers was in love with the daughter of a
farmer that lived on one side of the lava field and asked for her hand
in marriage. The farmer agreed on the Swede having his daughter's hand
only if the two berserkers could first create a path through the lava
field to connect his farm to that of his brother that lived on the other
side of the lava field. Although this was considered an impossible task,
the two berserkers were able to complete the path quite quickly. At that
point the farmer, instead of keeping his promise, killed the two Swedes
and buried them in the lava field.

Not a very pleasant story after all\....

If you are not familiar with the Icelandic Sagas, they tell the stories
of the first settlers of Iceland with plenty of violence, intrigue and
romance. The saga of Berserkjahraun is just one example.

<span class="image fit"><img src="/assets/images/team/hjalti.png" alt="" /></span>

#### **Visiting Berserkjahraun lava field**

The path that cuts through the lava field is a gravel road that is not
hard to drive on. Along the path, you will pass mountains, lava
formations and even a couple of tiny lakes.\
You can either drive or walk along the path.

Snæfellsnes Excursions offers two tours that include a visit to
Berserkjahraun lava field.

[**The Glacier and Lava
Tour**](https://sfn.is/tours/snaefellsnes-glacier-lava-4x4-tour/) is a
4x4 tour operated in the summertime that offers the opportunity to visit
the lava field, as well as other lava formations and volcano craters on
the peninsula. On this tour you will also join an exciting snow-cat ride
on Snæfellsjökull, a glacier made famous by the novel Journey to the
Center of the Earth by Jules Verne.

If you are visiting Snæfellsnes in the winter, you could join the
[**Shark and Lava Winter
Tour**](https://sfn.is/tours/shark-and-lava-winter-tour-iceland/) to
explore Berserkjahraun lava field covered in snow, when it becomes a
winter wonderland! You will also get to visit the shark museum and taste
the traditional Icelandic fermented shark, if the smell doesn't scare
you away.

Berserkjahraun is a special place that I really love visiting and where
I feel a special connection with the Icelandic nature. I would highly
recommend you come see it while you are in Iceland.


<span class="image fit"><img src="/assets/images/team/skuggi.jpg" alt="" /></span>
### **Snæfellsjökull Glacier**

Snæfellsjökull is a glacier-capped active volcano situated in the most
western part of the Snæfellsnes Peninsula, within the Snæfellsjökull
National Park.\
This mountain-volcano-glacier is about 700.000 years old and rises 1.446
m (4.744 ft) above sea level. With clear skies, it can even be seen from
Reykjavik, 120 km away!\
Although it is an active volcano, Snæfellsjökull's last eruption
happened about 1750 years ago so you will be safe if you decide to take
a hike or a tour on the glacier.

The mountain is one of the most famous places in Iceland, mostly thanks
to the novel Journey to the Center of the Earth by Jules Verne, in which
the mountain is said to hide a passage leading to the center of the
earth.\
Moreover, Snæfellsjökull has always been considered a place of great
energy, power and magic, and is a popular place to visit for new agers.

#### **Visit Snæfellsjökull**

If you decide to visit the glacier, keep in mind that glaciers can be
dangerous. Do not climb on the glacier by yourself but join guided tours
or hire expert guides to make sure you explore one of Iceland's most
intriguing glaciers safely. If you are lucky, you might even find the
entrance to the center of the earth! If you do, make sure you come back
to let us know!

If you are in good shape, Snæfellsjökull is not a very hard glacier to
hike. However, what is amazing about this glacier though is that it can
easily be climbed without any effort with a [**snow-cat
tour**](https://sfn.is/tours/snaefellsjokull-glacier-snow-cat-tour/).
After a drive to the foot of the glacier, a snow-cat slowly takes you up
on the glacier, giving you all the time to take in the beautiful view,
breathe the fresh air and take some very nice pictures. This snow cat
tour gives you a chance to explore one of Iceland's most famous glaciers
without effort and is excellent for people of all ages.

Snow-cat tours are run in the summer, with the proper ice and weather
conditions. It is not always possible to reach the top of the glacier,
depending on the crevasses present on the ice, but the snow-cat will
take you as high up as possible.\
A snow-cat tour on Snæfellsjökull really is a great experience that
enables you to visit one of Iceland's most famous and beautiful glaciers
in all comfort. The views over the surrounding Snæfellsnes Peninsula
from the top of the glacier are just spectacular and will make up for an
unforgettable experience.

If you are traveling around Snæfellsnes in the summer and are looking
for something a little different to do, I would really recommend a
snow-cat tour on the majestic and mystical Snæfellsjökull.

Check out our [**Snæfellsjökull snow-cat
tour**](https://sfn.is/tours/snaefellsjokull-glacier-snow-cat-tour/) and
feel free to contact us if you need more info!

<span class="image fit"><img src="/assets/images/team/hjalti.png" alt="" /></span>

## **Visit Snæfellsnes soon!**

If you are in Iceland or planning a trip to Iceland, make sure you
include Snæfellsnes Peninsula to the places you are going to visit. This
peninsula is just great, and it has so much to offer. You could easily
spend a few days driving around, exploring its most hidden lava caves,
waterfalls, lava fields, volcano craters, golden and black beaches. If
you have a tight schedule, however, one day would suffice to see the
main sights.

On Snæfellsnes you can get a taste of the stunning Icelandic nature and
experience the magic of this beautiful country.

Please let us know in the comments if there are places you would like to
know more about.

Follow us on
[Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/SnaefellsnesExcursions/) and
[Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/snaefellsnes_excursions/) for
pictures of the beautiful Snæfellsnes Peninsula!
